You will be given a number and your task is
to check whether the given number is a happy number
or not.
So what is a happy number? See if you take
a number and repeatedly replace the number with its sum
of squares of its digits and finally you're getting the
number one.
Then that number is a happy number.
For example, let us take the number 19, add squares
of digits one and nine. So one square + nine square
equal to eighty two.
Now do the same. Eight square + two square equal to sixty eight.
Now six square + eight square equal to hundred
So now one square + zero square + zero square
equal to one.
So after repeatedly finding sum of squares of each digit
finally we got the number one. So we can say
19 is a happy number.
All other numbers which does not lead us to number one
will get stuck in a loop of numbers which
never reach one.
For example, take the number 15. One square
plus five square equal to twenty six.
Two square plus six square equal to forty.
Four square plus zero square equal to sixteen. One square plus six square
equal to thirty seven.
Three square plus seven square equal to fifty eight.
five square plus eight square equal to eighty nine. Now eight square
plus nine square equal to 145.
Now one square plus four square plus five square equal to forty two.
Now four square plus two square equal to twenty and
two square plus zero square
equal to four and four square equal to sixteen. Again see
here four is again going back to sixteen so it will
never reach number one.
The same numbers after sixteen will repeat again and again
so 15 is not a happy number.